<h1>Build a Cryogenic Electrolysis system for Hydrogen Purification and Liquefaction</h1>
<p>Follow this guide to create an efficient liquid hydrogen generator! (Based on the <a href="https://www.instructables.com/Homemade-liquid-nitrogen-generator/">Instructable</a> by Imsmooth.)</p>
<h2>Parts list:</h2>
<ul>
<li><p><b>Appropriate container</b>: Use an appropriate container to efficiently store your freshly harvested liquid nitrogen. A simple stainless steel vacuum bottle will suffice, although more specialized containers like the Thermo Scientific Thermo-Flask™ Benchtop Liquid Nitrogen Containers exist and can be simply modified to contain freshly-extracted liquid nitrogen.</p><p>Storing liquid nitrogen at artificially higher atmospheric pressure can simplify the storage process and increase its stability. By maintaining a higher pressure, such as in a pressurized container, the boiling point of liquid nitrogen can be elevated, allowing it to remain in its liquid state for longer periods. This can facilitate easier handling, reduce the rate of evaporation, and minimize the need for frequent replenishment. However, it is crucial to ensure proper safety measures are in place when working with pressurized containers to prevent any potential hazards.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Compressor (Suggested RIX oil-free SA-3E)</b>: This is the most expensive component. We're using a RIX oil-free SA-3E. This delivers 3 SCFM @ 3500psi (230 ATM). I modified the motor and pulleys to deliver 4 SCFM. A higher flow gives you a faster cool-down and production rate. The high pressure allows you to have a larger temperature drop when you throttle the gas to a lower pressure. You can use a regular refrigerator compressor, but you will be waiting a long time to drop 400 degrees Fahrenheit from the ambient temperature to -320F if you only have 40 ATM of pressure.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Scrubber</b>: You can make this components out of PVC pipe. We used 4" PCV, along with multiple layers of filters and screens. You need to get the correct fittings to get to a pipe size that you can then attach to your compressor. The scrubber uses a material called zeolite, or molecular sieve. We specifically used 13x molecular sieve and added some 4A sieve material that had a color indicator added so I know when it has reached saturation. You determine the size of the scrubber based on your flow rate. If you want 3-4 SCFM then you need about 10-15lbs of the material and size the scrubber based on this.</p><p>Purchase links:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><b>Zeolite</b>: Naturally occurring or man-made, with finely porous material with holes that are angstroms in size and bind with CO2 and water, which enter and bind with the pores, letting the other gases, like O2 and N2 pass through. The color-indicator will change from light blue to gray when the material can not adsorb any more water. The material is regenerated by heating to 350F, driving off the CO2 and water. Purchase on Amazon: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B09XTWYG6S/ref=twister_B0BHNPZZ9Y?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1">HFS (R) Molecular Sieve Zeolite 8X12 Mesh (5LB, 4A)</a>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>200-micron screening</b>: Used to seperate different levels of zeolite for improved filteration. This screening holds the 10 lbs of material in place and prevents it from getting sucked into the compressor, but still allows for air-flow. I glued this material between the 4-to-2 inch reducer and the coupler fitting. We need to filter smaller material, so I took 11 MERV air-conditional filter material and cut it into a large circular disc. This should filter 1-3um particles. If you can get a 12 MERV this is better. I fashioned a circular ring of stainless steel that I got at a hardware store and fixed the filter material on top of the 200um screening. Then, poured in 10 lbs of 13x and 4A sieve. I then made another filter disc out of the air-conditioning material and fixed it on the top with a stainless steel ring. This keeps the material clean. You don't want particles clogging the sieve's pores.</p>
<p>The top of the scrubber needs three inputs. One is to allow for fresh gas input. The other connects to the regenerated gas. This is gas from the cooling tower that did not liquefy. The gas is already cool, free of CO2 and water, and in my case is 98.5% nitrogen. I don't want to waste this gas to the atmosphere so I reuse it, reducing the amount of fresh N2 that we need to make. This is why it is called regenerated gas because it comes from the original gas I fed into the tower. The third input allows any excess gas to vent out.</p></li>
<li><p><b></b>: </p></li>
<li><p><b></b>: </p></li>
<li><p><b></b>: </p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><b></b>: </p></li>
</ul>